Add new Azure PostgreSQL client integrations. (#2905)
dotnet/docs-aspire: docs/database/includes/azure-postgresql-ef-client.md

---

To get started with the .NET Aspire PostgreSQL Entity Framework Core client integration, install the [📦 Aspire.Azure.Npgsql.EntityFrameworkCore.PostgreSQL](https://www.nuget.org/packages/) NuGet package in the client-consuming project, that is, the project for the application that uses the PostgreSQL client. The .NET Aspire PostgreSQL Entity Framework Core client integration registers your desired `DbContext` subclass instances that you can use to interact with PostgreSQL.

### [.NET CLI](#tab/dotnet-cli)

```dotnetcli
dotnet add package Aspire.Azure.Npgsql.EntityFrameworkCore.PostgreSQL
```

### [PackageReference](#tab/package-reference)

```xml
<PackageReference Include="Aspire.Azure.Npgsql.EntityFrameworkCore.PostgreSQL"
                  Version="*" />
```

---

<!-- TODO: Add xref to AddAzureNpgsqlDbContext when available -->

The PostgreSQL connection can be consumed using the client integration by calling the `AddAzureNpgsqlDataSource`:

```csharp
builder.AddAzureNpgsqlDbContext<YourDbContext>(connectionName: "postgresdb");
```

> [!TIP]
> The `connectionName` parameter must match the name used when adding the PostgreSQL server resource in the app host project.

> The preceding code snippet demonstrates how to use the `AddAzureNpgsqlDataSource` method to register an `NpgsqlDataSource` instance that uses Azure authentication ([Microsoft Entra ID](/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/concepts-azure-ad-authentication)). This `"postgresdb"` connection name corresponds to a connection string configuration value.

Author: ```suggestion
The preceding code snippet demonstrates how to use the `AddAzureNpgsqlDbContext` method to register an `YourDbContext` instance that uses Azure authentication ([Microsoft Entra ID](/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/concepts-azure-ad-authentication)). This `"postgresdb"` connection name corresponds to a connection string configuration value.
```

- You can choose not to use Entity Framework Core context pooling, which may perform better in some circumstances.

If you use this method, you can enhance the database context with .NET Aspire-style retries, health checks, logging, and telemetry features by calling the `EnrichAzureNpgsqlDbContext` method:

```csharp
builder.EnrichAzureNpgsqlDbContext<YourDbContext>(
    configureSettings: settings =>
    {
        settings.DisableRetry = false;
        settings.CommandTimeout = 30;
    });
```

The `settings` parameter is an instance of the `AzureNpgsqlEntityFrameworkCorePostgreSQLSettings` class.

<!-- TODO: Add xref to EnrichAzureNpgsqlDbContext when available -->

You might also need to configure specific options of Npgsql, or register a <xref:System.Data.Entity.DbContext> in other ways. In this case, you do so by calling the `EnrichAzureNpgsqlDbContext` extension method, as shown in the following example:

```csharp
var connectionString = builder.Configuration.GetConnectionString("postgresdb");

builder.Services.AddDbContextPool<YourDbContext>(
    dbContextOptionsBuilder => dbContextOptionsBuilder.UseNpgsql(connectionString));

> builder.EnrichAzureNpgsqlDbContext<YourDbContext>();

Author: I thought it was important to show different ways of using these APIs.

```

Alternatively, you can use the `EnrichAzureNpgsqlDbContext` extension method to configure the settings:

```csharp
builder.EnrichAzureNpgsqlDbContext<YourDbContext>(
    settings => settings.DisableHealthChecks = true);
```

<!-- TODO: Add xref to AzureNpgsqlEntityFrameworkCorePostgreSQLSettings.Credential when available -->

Use the `AzureNpgsqlEntityFrameworkCorePostgreSQLSettings.Credential` property to establish a connection. If no credential is configured, the <xref:Azure.Identity.DefaultAzureCredential> is used.

When the connection string contains a username and password, the credential is ignored.

##### Troubleshooting

In the rare case that the `Username` property isn't provided and the integration can't detect it using the application's Managed Identity, Npgsql throws an exception with a message similar to the following:

> Npgsql.PostgresException (0x80004005): 28P01: password authentication failed for user ...

In this case you can configure the `Username` property in the connection string and use `EnrichAzureNpgsqlDbContext`, passing the connection string in `UseNpgsql`:

```csharp
builder.Services.AddDbContextPool<YourDbContext>(

>     options => options.UseNpgsql(newConnectionString));

Reviewer: I don't see anything in here configuring the user name.

Author: That's a good catch, how would one configure that?
